US President Joe Biden's pressed Israeli
Prime Minister bin Netanyahu to close a
deal with Hamas for a ceasefire in Gaza
it comes after a senior Us official said
there had been a quote breakthrough in
negotiations the officials said Hamas
had made a significant adjustment to its
position in the talks there are reports
the head of Israel's intelligence
service is going to travel to Qatar to
discuss the details and his call with
Biden netanyahu's insisted the war would
only end after Israel achieves its goals
our correspondent Charles traford
standing by for us here in Doha for an
update on those ceasefire negotiations
first we're going to head to darala in
central Gaza where hin C is joining us
um live hind uh I understand the
situation there bakeries and hospitals
out of Po power some are facing a
shutdown tell us
more well it's very hard on the
humanitarian as situation in Gaza at
alnaser hospital the only only hospital
that is facilitating
inun and ra and receiving all the
patients the only hospital that is
working in that area is on the risk of
shutting down due to the lack of fuel uh
the Ministry of Health is calling their
appealing that this must not uh shut
down they need fuel as soon as possible
uh to uh keep this Hospital facilitating
let me remind you that Al Nas hospital
was a a
invaded by the Israeli occupation they
were uh working on rehabilitating the
hospital for weeks now and suddenly now
after it stood up on their feet they're
working again they have incubators they
have all of their departments working
the hospital is running out of fuel also
yesterday only one uh Bakery out of
seven worked in there we're talking
about bakeries that are serving 1.8
million Palestinians that are squee seed
into the middle area after being
displaced multiple times from different
areas the wfp the world food program has
been uh Ser providing those bakeries
with fuel with uh um flour with salt
with yeast and with all the ingredients
that would make it possible for the
bakeries to provide uh bread for all of
these Palestinians but also due to the
lack of fuel uh there is a threat that
those Bakery will also shut down but we
got news that uh those bakeries received
uh fuel for only one day so the risk is
uh also high for shutting those bakeries
and those bakeries are the lifeline uh
for all of these Palestinians that are
have been displaced over and over again
but also Palestinians feel this risk uh
anaser Hospital uh the bakeries being
displaced air strikes still going on so
Palestinians still believe that there's
a a very collapsing humanitarian
situation still going on in the Gaza
Strip despite uh the negotiations about
the Seas fire deal and everything
happening in Doha yeah I want to talk to
you about that because of course with
the backdrop of hopes once again of a
possible uh negotiation towards a a
ceasefire we're still seeing air strikes
and and artillery strikes happening in
uh Gaza just talk us through what the
latest is with
that well five pal Ians were killed
among them are three Palestinian
children in Al jabalia in a residential
house there has been also a couple of
air strikes inun a coule also artillery
shelling inat but the main news in where
there's no news out of sha we're talking
about a ground Invasion for more than 6
days no ambulances are being able to
reach that area no journalists are able
to reach up the area no firefighters we
know that there are heavy shelling
endless air strikes and those
Palestinians who were trapped and they
were uh sending calls and appeals for
the world and for the community to
evacuate them uh we are not hearing from
anyone and this is what's making it very
dangerous and risky and scary and those
Palestinians who have neighbors still
trapped in are very worried but we're
still waiting to hear anything from
anyone from those families trapped in a
due to the ground inv that is still
going on in that area H cadri bringing
us up to date from deral hen thank you
very much indeed we're going to go to
Charles statford who's in a Doha for us
it was about a month ago US President
Joe Biden said that there had been a
proposal for a ceasefire on the table uh
remind us what was in it and why nothing
was done about
it that's right rob it has been more
than a month since that proposal put
forward by Biden um happened May the
21st it was a un endorsed proposal as
well and rightly so it's important just
to go through exactly what that proposal
involves but it's three stages to that
potential deal the first stage involves
a six- we ceasefire and the withdrawal
of all Israeli forces from populated
areas in exchange for some of the
Israeli hostages um being released um
including women the Aged and the sick
and that would be an change for some
Palestinian Prisoners the second stage
is going to involve or was going to
involve the the release of all the
remaining living hostages it's believed
that there could be um at least 50
remaining living hostages Israeli
hostages inside Gaza so that second
stage was going to involve their release
um and a permanent end to all
hostilities the third stage was going to
involve the beginning of a
reconstruction plan plan of Gaza um and
then all the remaining uh dead Israeli
hostages their remains would then be
returned to Israel now there has been
push back basically both sides on this
plan the US has blamed Hamas um but as
you say we are beginning to have hope
now that there may be changes to that
proposal that have been offered by Hamas
that are going to be discussed here in
Doha in the next couple of days but if
it was understood that Hamas basically
wanted an immediate end to the war in
this proposal it was no good for a
temporary six we ceasefire at the
beginning they wanted an immediate end
to all hostilities and an immediate
withdrawal to um of Israeli forces um
and we understand that you know although
Israel said that certainly Netanyahu um
was very Cy in really appraising this
proposal and never really publicly
endorsed it
so we understand that there has been
pushed back in the last month and a half
of course by the Israeli Prime Minister
also Charles thanks very much indeed as
things progress over the next coming
coming hours of course we're going to be
coming back to you to talk about that
Charles Stratford in Doha thank you